# Day #02

This project was fun, I got to play around with Geometry Nodes to figure out how to turn an image into a 3D pixel grid.

Initially, I wanted to programmatically create a grid of cubes, and then sample an image texture to color them. To do this you need to have a reference plane that's textured, sub-divide it a bunch and sample it per-vertex. I did not think of that while making this, so I ended up just making a grid of cubes and shading them with the desired texture. This did teach me something about sending Geometry Node custom attributes for use in the Shader Node graph. In this case, the shader uses generated textured coordinates after the grid is combined into a single mesh so the image covers them all. Then the shader looks at the number of cubes and lowers the image resolution so that it matches the number of 3D pixels. Oh well, you live an you learn. Either way the effect is cool, and there are some demo videos in `Final/` that use different images as starting points. Using geometry nodes I added some noise + wave motion to them to help accentuate the 3D nature of the pixels (i.e. when viewed straight on it just looks like a regular image). Also proud that I am getting faster at creating interesting camera motions, although I still need to distinguish when to clamp to a curve, or follow a path. Hmmm what else... oh, these videos are just begging for some sound effects. Didn't have time to add them as Davinci adds hours to my workflow as I attempt to relearn it (and even relearn how to launch it on Wayland).
